README.md, before:

In this assignment you will practice writing backpropagation code, and training
Neural Networks and Convolutional Neural Networks. The goals of this assignment
are as follows:

- understand **Neural Networks** and how they are arranged in layered
  architectures
- understand and be able to implement (vectorized) **backpropagation**
- implement various **update rules** used to optimize Neural Networks
- implement **batch normalization** for training deep networks
- implement **dropout** to regularize networks
- effectively **cross-validate** and find the best hyperparameters for Neural
  Network architecture
- understand the architecture of **Convolutional Neural Networks** and train
  gain experience with training these models on data

## Setup
You can work on the assignment in one of two ways: locally on your own machine,
or on a virtual machine through Terminal.com. 

### Working in the cloud on Terminal

Terminal has created a separate subdomain to serve our class,
[www.stanfordterminalcloud.com](https://www.stanfordterminalcloud.com). Register
your account there. The Assignment 2 snapshot can then be found HERE. If you are
registered in the class you can contact the TA (see Piazza for more information)
to request Terminal credits for use on the assignment. Once you boot up the
snapshot everything will be installed for you, and you will be ready to start on
your assignment right away. We have written a small tutorial on Terminal
[here](http://cs231n.github.io/terminal-tutorial/).

### Working locally
Get the code as a zip file
[here](http://vision.stanford.edu/teaching/cs231n/winter1516_assignment2.zip).
As for the dependencies:

**[Option 1] Use Anaconda:**
The preferred approach for installing all the assignment dependencies is to use
[Anaconda](https://www.continuum.io/downloads), which is a Python distribution
that includes many of the most popular Python packages for science, math,
engineering and data analysis. Once you install it you can skip all mentions of
requirements and you are ready to go directly to working on the assignment.

**[Option 2] Manual install, virtual environment:**
If you do not want to use Anaconda and want to go with a more manual and risky
installation route you will likely want to create a
[virtual environment](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/)
for the project. If you choose not to use a virtual environment, it is up to you
to make sure that all dependencies for the code are installed globally on your
machine. To set up a virtual environment, run the following:

```bash
cd assignment2
sudo pip install virtualenv      # This may already be installed
virtualenv .env                  # Create a virtual environment
source .env/bin/activate         # Activate the virtual environment
pip install -r requirements.txt  # Install dependencies
# Work on the assignment for a while ...
deactivate                       # Exit the virtual environment
```

**Download data:**
Once you have the starter code, you will need to download the CIFAR-10 dataset.
Run the following from the `assignment2` directory:

```bash
cd cs231n/datasets
./get_datasets.sh
```

**Compile the Cython extension:** Convolutional Neural Networks require a very
efficient implementation. We have implemented of the functionality using
[Cython](http://cython.org/); you will need to compile the Cython extension
before you can run the code. From the `cs231n` directory, run the following
command:

```bash
python setup.py build_ext --inplace
```

**Start IPython:**
After you have the CIFAR-10 data, you should start the IPython notebook server
from the `assignment2` directory. If you are unfamiliar with IPython, you should 
read our [IPython tutorial](http://cs231n.github.io/ipython-tutorial/).

**NOTE:** If you are working in a virtual environment on OSX, you may encounter
errors with matplotlib due to the
[issues described here](http://matplotlib.org/faq/virtualenv_faq.html).
You can work around this issue by starting the IPython server using the
`start_ipython_osx.sh` script from the `assignment2` directory; the script
assumes that your virtual environment is named `.env`.


### Submitting your work:
Whether you work on the assignment locally or using Terminal, once you are done
working run the `collectSubmission.sh` script; this will produce a file called
`assignment2.zip`. Upload this file to your dropbox on
[the coursework](https://coursework.stanford.edu/portal/site/W15-CS-231N-01/)
page for the course.


### Q1: Fully-connected Neural Network (30 points)
The IPython notebook `FullyConnectedNets.ipynb` will introduce you to our
modular layer design, and then use those layers to implement fully-connected
networks of arbitrary depth. To optimize these models you will implement several
popular update rules.

### Q2: Batch Normalization (30 points)
In the IPython notebook `BatchNormalization.ipynb` you will implement batch
normalization, and use it to train deep fully-connected networks.

### Q3: Dropout (10 points)
The IPython notebook `Dropout.ipynb` will help you implement Dropout and explore
its effects on model generalization.

### Q4: ConvNet on CIFAR-10 (30 points)
In the IPython Notebook `ConvolutionalNetworks.ipynb` you will implement several
new layers that are commonly used in convolutional networks. You will train a
(shallow) convolutional network on CIFAR-10, and it will then be up to you to
train the best network that you can.

### Q5: Do something extra! (up to +10 points)
In the process of training your network, you should feel free to implement
anything that you want to get better performance. You can modify the solver,
implement additional layers, use different types of regularization, use an
ensemble of models, or anything else that comes to mind. If you implement these
or other ideas not covered in the assignment then you will be awarded some bonus
points.

Commit message:

Finished with Dropout.ipynb. Next up is ConvolutionalNetworks.ipynb

README.md, after:

In this assignment you will practice writing backpropagation code, and training
Neural Networks and Convolutional Neural Networks. The goals of this assignment
are as follows:

- understand **Neural Networks** and how they are arranged in layered
  architectures
- understand and be able to implement (vectorized) **backpropagation**
- implement various **update rules** used to optimize Neural Networks
- implement **batch normalization** for training deep networks
- implement **dropout** to regularize networks
- effectively **cross-validate** and find the best hyperparameters for Neural
  Network architecture
- understand the architecture of **Convolutional Neural Networks** and train
  gain experience with training these models on data

## Setup
You can work on the assignment in one of two ways: locally on your own machine,
or on a virtual machine through Terminal.com. 

### Working in the cloud on Terminal

Terminal has created a separate subdomain to serve our class,
[www.stanfordterminalcloud.com](https://www.stanfordterminalcloud.com). Register
your account there. The Assignment 2 snapshot can then be found HERE. If you are
registered in the class you can contact the TA (see Piazza for more information)
to request Terminal credits for use on the assignment. Once you boot up the
snapshot everything will be installed for you, and you will be ready to start on
your assignment right away. We have written a small tutorial on Terminal
[here](http://cs231n.github.io/terminal-tutorial/).

### Working locally
Get the code as a zip file
[here](http://vision.stanford.edu/teaching/cs231n/winter1516_assignment2.zip).
As for the dependencies:

**[Option 1] Use Anaconda:**
The preferred approach for installing all the assignment dependencies is to use
[Anaconda](https://www.continuum.io/downloads), which is a Python distribution
that includes many of the most popular Python packages for science, math,
engineering and data analysis. Once you install it you can skip all mentions of
requirements and you are ready to go directly to working on the assignment.

**[Option 2] Manual install, virtual environment:**
If you do not want to use Anaconda and want to go with a more manual and risky
installation route you will likely want to create a
[virtual environment](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/)
for the project. If you choose not to use a virtual environment, it is up to you
to make sure that all dependencies for the code are installed globally on your
machine. To set up a virtual environment, run the following:

```bash
cd assignment2
sudo pip install virtualenv      # This may already be installed
virtualenv .env                  # Create a virtual environment
source .env/bin/activate         # Activate the virtual environment
pip install -r requirements.txt  # Install dependencies
# Work on the assignment for a while ...
deactivate                       # Exit the virtual environment
```

**Download data:**
Once you have the starter code, you will need to download the CIFAR-10 dataset.
Run the following from the `assignment2` directory:

```bash
cd cs231n/datasets
./get_datasets.sh
```

**Compile the Cython extension:** Convolutional Neural Networks require a very
efficient implementation. We have implemented of the functionality using
[Cython](http://cython.org/); you will need to compile the Cython extension
before you can run the code. From the `cs231n` directory, run the following
command:

```bash
python setup.py build_ext --inplace
```

**Start IPython:**
After you have the CIFAR-10 data, you should start the IPython notebook server
from the `assignment2` directory. If you are unfamiliar with IPython, you should 
read our [IPython tutorial](http://cs231n.github.io/ipython-tutorial/).

**NOTE:** If you are working in a virtual environment on OSX, you may encounter
errors with matplotlib due to the
[issues described here](http://matplotlib.org/faq/virtualenv_faq.html).
You can work around this issue by starting the IPython server using the
`start_ipython_osx.sh` script from the `assignment2` directory; the script
assumes that your virtual environment is named `.env`.


### Submitting your work:
Whether you work on the assignment locally or using Terminal, once you are done
working run the `collectSubmission.sh` script; this will produce a file called
`assignment2.zip`. Upload this file to your dropbox on
[the coursework](https://coursework.stanford.edu/portal/site/W15-CS-231N-01/)
page for the course.


### Q1: Fully-connected Neural Network (30 points)
The IPython notebook `FullyConnectedNets.ipynb` will introduce you to our
modular layer design, and then use those layers to implement fully-connected
networks of arbitrary depth. To optimize these models you will implement several
popular update rules.

### Q2: Batch Normalization (30 points)
In the IPython notebook `BatchNormalization.ipynb` you will implement batch
normalization, and use it to train deep fully-connected networks.

### Q3: Dropout (10 points)
The IPython notebook `Dropout.ipynb` will help you implement Dropout and explore
its effects on model generalization.

ALEX ALEX ALEX: I'm here, pick up with this conv net

### Q4: ConvNet on CIFAR-10 (30 points)
In the IPython Notebook `ConvolutionalNetworks.ipynb` you will implement several
new layers that are commonly used in convolutional networks. You will train a
(shallow) convolutional network on CIFAR-10, and it will then be up to you to
train the best network that you can.

### Q5: Do something extra! (up to +10 points)
In the process of training your network, you should feel free to implement
anything that you want to get better performance. You can modify the solver,
implement additional layers, use different types of regularization, use an
ensemble of models, or anything else that comes to mind. If you implement these
or other ideas not covered in the assignment then you will be awarded some bonus
points.
